README.md, before:

# PowerShell Editor Services

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/85tyhckawwxoiim2/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/PowerShell/powershelleditorservices/branch/master)

PowerShell Editor Services provides common functionality that is needed 
to enable a consistent and robust PowerShell development experience 
across multiple editors.

## Features

- The Language Service provides code navigation actions (find references, go to definition) and statement completions (IntelliSense)
- The Analysis Service integrates PowerShell Script Analyzer to provide real-time semantic analysis of scripts
- The Console Service provides a simplified PowerShell host for an interactive console (REPL)
- The Debugging Service simplifies interaction with the PowerShell debugger (breakpoints, locals, etc) - COMING SOON

The core Editor Services library is intended to be consumed in any type of host application, whether
it is a WPF UI, console application, or web service.  A standard console application host is included
so that you can easily consume Editor Services functionality in any editor using either the included
standard input/output transport protocol or a transport of your own design.

## Cloning the Code

To clone the repository and initialize all the submodules at once you can run:

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShellEditorServices.git
```

If you have already cloned the repository without `--recursive` option, you can run following commands to initialize the submodules:

```
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

## Contributions Welcome!

We would love to incorporate community contributions into this project.  If you would like to
contribute code, documentation, tests, or bug reports, please read our [Contribution Guide]
(docs/contributing.md) to learn more.

Commit message:

Add API and host process usage documentation
This change introduces new documentation that explains the usage of both
the .NET API and the host process.

README.md, after:

# PowerShell Editor Services

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/85tyhckawwxoiim2/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/PowerShell/powershelleditorservices/branch/master)

PowerShell Editor Services provides common functionality that is needed 
to enable a consistent and robust PowerShell development experience 
across multiple editors.

## Features

- The Language Service provides code navigation actions (find references, go to definition) and statement completions (IntelliSense)
- The Analysis Service integrates PowerShell Script Analyzer to provide real-time semantic analysis of scripts
- The Debugging Service simplifies interaction with the PowerShell debugger (breakpoints, variables, call stack, etc)

The core Editor Services library is intended to be consumed in any type of host application, whether
it is a WPF UI, console application, or web service.  A standard console application host is included
so that you can easily consume Editor Services functionality in any editor using either the included
standard input/output transport protocol or a transport of your own design.

## Documentation

Check out the following two pages for information about how to use the API and host process:

- **[Using the .NET API](docs/using_the_dotnet_api.md)** - Read this if you want to use the API in your .NET application
- **[Using the Host Process](docs/using_the_host_process.md)** - Read this if you want to use the API in a non-.NET application such as a code editor

## Installation

**TODO**: Add information about acquiring packages from NuGet.

## Cloning the Code

To clone the repository and initialize all the submodules at once you can run:

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShellEditorServices.git
```

If you have already cloned the repository without `--recursive` option, you can run following commands to initialize the submodules:

```
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

## Contributions Welcome!

We would love to incorporate community contributions into this project.  If you would like to
contribute code, documentation, tests, or bug reports, please read our [Contribution Guide]
(docs/contributing.md) to learn more.
